## Overview ##

jasima® (JAva SImulator for MAnufacturing and logistics) is a Java library that provides an environment to create and run computer experiments, especially (stochastic) Simulation experiments. The framework has been created with an eye towards efficiency.

jasima® has been used in various research projects (see publication list below), specifically in connection with the development and evaluation of dispatching rules. It is therefore particularly designed for the simulation of a variety of shop floor models, including job shops, flow shops, and even more complex scenarios (some models from semiconductor manufacturing that include batch processing, work centres with parallel machines, sequence-dependent setup times, and breakdown of machines have also been implemented and are ready to be used).

The experiment-execution framework allows for easy parallelisation of simulation experiments (e.g., when running multiple independent replications) and transparently distributes work to the available CPU-cores. The output of the simulation can be directly printed into Excel files that are easy to use for subsequent analyses of the experimental results.

If you have any questions or remarks regarding jasima®, there is a low-volume mailing list [(jasima-discuss)](http://groups.google.com/group/jasima-discuss).

## Getting Started ##

To get started using jasima® please refer to the [getting started](GettingStarted.md) guide.

## Benchmark Study for the Evaluation of Hyper-Heuristics ##

As mentioned above, jasima® has been specifically used in connection with dispatching rules. A [performance study](PerformanceStudy.md) has been conducted to compare a number of manually designed rules with rules that have been generated by various hyper-heuristics (automated methods), and further to provide a benchmark for future research.

## Published Work using jasima® ##

The following list contains some publications in which jasima® has been employed. If you are aware of any additional papers, e.g. in which you have used jasima® yourself, please do not hesitate to send us a [mail](mailto:torsten@jasimasolutions.de).

### Articles ###

<dl>
<dt>inproceedings <a>(Hildebrandt2014a)</a></dt>
<dd>T. Hildebrandt, D. Goswami, and M. Freitag</dd>
<dd>Large-scale simulation-based optimization of semiconductor dispatching rules</dd>
<dd><i>Proceedings of the 2014 Winter Simulation Conference</i>, IEEE Press, <b>2014</b>, pp. 2580–2590</dd>

<dt>article <a>(Hildebrandt2014)</a></dt>
<dd>T. Hildebrandt and J. Branke</dd>
<dd>On using surrogates with genetic programming</dd>
<dd><i>Evolutionary Computation</i>, <b>2014</b>, DOI: 10.1162/EVCO_a_00133</dd>

<dt>article <a>(Branke2014)</a></dt>
<dd>J. Branke, T. Hildebrandt, and B. Scholz-Reiter</dd>
<dd>Hyper-heuristic evolution of dispatching rules: a comparison of rule representations</dd>
<dd><i>Evolutionary Computation</i>, <b>2014</b>, DOI: 10.1162/EVCO_a_00131</dd>

<dt>incollection <a>(Heger2013a)</a></dt>
<dd>J. Heger, T. Hildebrandt, and B. Scholz-Reiter</dd>
<dd>Switching dispatching rules with Gaussian processes</dd>
<dd><i>Robust Manufacturing Control</i>, Springer, <b>2013</b>, pp. 91–103</dd>

<dt>article <a>(Heger2013)</a></dt>
<dd>J. Heger, T. Hildebrandt, and B. Scholz-Reiter</dd>
<dd>Dispatching rule selection with Gaussian processes</dd>
<dd><i>Central European Journal of Operations Research</i>, <b>2013</b>, DOI: 10.1007/s10100-013-0322-7</dd>

<dt>article <a>(Hildebrandt2013)</a></dt>
<dd>T. Hildebrandt and B. Scholz-Reiter</dd>
<dd>Optimierte Steuerung von Logistikprozessen — Simulationsbasierte Optimierung auf Basis leistungsfähiger Open Source Simulation</dd>
<dd><i>Productivity Management</i> 18(5), <b>2013</b>, pp. 53–56</dd>

<dt>article <a>(Pickardt2013)</a></dt>
<dd>C. W. Pickardt, T. Hildebrandt, J. Branke, J. Heger, and B. Scholz-Reiter</dd>
<dd>Evolutionary generation of dispatching rule sets for complex dynamic scheduling problems</dd>
<dd><i>International Journal of Production Economics</i> 145(1), <b>2013</b>, pp. 67–77</dd>

<dt>article <a>(Pickardt2012)</a></dt>
<dd>C. W. Pickardt and J. Branke</dd>
<dd>Setup-oriented dispatching rules — a survey</dd>
<dd><i>International Journal of Production Research</i> 50(20), <b>2012</b>, pp. 5823–5842</dd>

<dt>article <a>(Branke2011)</a></dt>
<dd>J. Branke and C. W. Pickardt</dd>
<dd>Evolutionary search for difficult problem instances to support the design of job shop dispatching rules</dd>
<dd><i>European Journal of Operational Research</i> 212(1), <b>2011</b>, pp. 22–32</dd>

<dt>inproceedings <a>(Pickardt2010)</a></dt>
<dd>C. Pickardt, J. Branke, T. Hildebrandt, J. Heger, and B. Scholz-Reiter</dd>
<dd>Generating dispatching rules for semiconductor manufacturing to minimize weighted tardiness</dd>
<dd><i>Proceedings of the 2010 Winter Simulation Conference</i>, IEEE Press, <b>2010</b>, pp. 2504–2515</dd>

<dt>inproceedings <a>(Hildebrandt2010)</a></dt>
<dd>T. Hildebrandt, J. Heger, and B. Scholz-Reiter</dd>
<dd>Towards improved dispatching rules for complex shop floor Scenarios — a genetic programming approach</dd>
<dd><i>GECCO '10: Proceedings of the 12th Annual Conference on Genetic and Evolutionary Computation</i>, ACM Press, <b>2010</b>, pp. 257–264</dd>

</dl>

### Books ###

<dl>

<dt>book <a>(Heger2014)</a></dt>
<dd>J. Heger</dd>
<dd><i>Dynamische Regelselektion in der Reihenfolgeplanung: Prognose von Steuerungsparametern mit Gaußschen Prozessen</i></dd>
<dd>Springer Vieweg, <b>2014</b></dd>

</dl>

### Dissertations ###

<dl>

<dt>phdthesis <a>(Pickardt2013a)</a></dt>
<dd>C. W. Pickardt</dd>
<dd>Evolutionary methods for the design of dispatching rules for complex and dynamic scheduling problems</dd>
<dd>PhD thesis, University of Warwick, <b>2013</b></dd>

</dl>