#summary FullFactorialExperiment, ExcelSaver

= MultipleReplicationExperiment =

`MultipleReplicationExperiment` is the most simple implementation of `AbstractMultiExperiment`, which can run any experiment a number of times using different random seeds and create statistics about each result.
Much like `ValueStat` is used to summarize results of many data points in one experiment, it is used by `AbstractMultiExperiment` to summarize the results of a number of runs of the same experiment.
If the result of a single run is already a `ValueStat` object, all parameters except for the mea value are discarded.
Results that are neither numeric or of type `ValueStat` result in a list of the results of each run.

== Seed handling ==

By default, `MultipleReplicationExperiment` will use its own random stream to generate distinct seeds for each replication of the base experiment.
That means that while the replications will most likely have unique seeds and random streams, all seeds and random seeds will be the same when the same seed is used for the `MultipleReplicationExperiment`.

== Creating a MultipleReplicationExperiment using the Eclipse plugin ==

Nested experiments should be created from outside to inside.
First, create a `MultipleReplicationExperiment` using the Jasima Experiment wizard.
Then, press the 'new' icon next to the `baseExperiment` property to create any experiment that should be run multiple times, for example `HolthausSimple2Experiment`.
The properties of the inner experiment can be edited while the `baseExperiment` property is expanded.
Properties belonging to the inner experiment can be recognized by the gray bar next to them.

It is also possible to assign an existing experiment to the `baseExperiment` property.
To do so, click on the `Load` icon and change the file filter to 'Jasima experiments'.
A copy of the experiment will be made, so changes in the original file are not visible in the outer experiment's file.

= FullFactorialExperiment =

`FullFactorialExperiment` is another implementation of `AbstractMultiExperiment`.
Instead of simply running an experiment a number of times, it can also vary one or more parameters between runs.

Each factor name must match a property of the base experiment.
Factors are represented as a shallow tree in the graphical editor, with each factor name containing a number of factor values.

= ExcelSaver =

Can be used to save results in [Excel MS Excel format].

Continue with ShopFloorSimulation.
