#summary Performance Study of Automatically Designed Dispatching Rules.

= Motivation =

The purpose of this study is to provide a benchmark for the comparison of different approaches for the (automatic) generation of scheduling heuristics, and dispatching rules in particular. By making the test problems and the descriptions and/or Java classes of the best dispatching rules publicly available, we pursue to facilitate the reproducibility of results and increase the comparability of different methods for the design of scheduling heuristics.

= Benchmark Problems =

As benchmark problems, we adopt the dynamic job shop and flow shop problems, defined and used in

C. Rajendran and O. Holthaus (1999). A comparative study of dispatching rules in dynamic ﬂowshops and jobshops. _European Journal of Operational
Research_ 116(1), pp. 156–170.

The dynamic nature of these scheduling problems presents a specific challenge for solution methods, which have to be able to quickly adapt a solution in response to unexpected changes. This ability is one of the main advantages of dispatching rules, and the problems are therefore particularly suitable for their evaluation. Moreover, job shop and flow shop problems belong to the most widely studied scheduling problems in the literature, and thus serve well as benchmarks in our view.

For a more detailed description of the problems, see ProblemsDescription.

= Examined Dispatching Rules =

The set of dispatching rules tested in this study includes several dispatching rules generated by various automated methods (also called hyper-heuristics), as well as a few manually developed rules that have been specifically designed for the benchmark problems. The hyper-heuristics are based on different implementations of Genetic Programming (GP), and a Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy (CMA-ES).

For a more detailed description of the dispatching rules and the hyper-heuristics, see HeuristicsDescription.

= Results =

The currently best dispatching rules and there scores with respect to the two performance measures are:

|| || *Dispatching Rule* || *Hyper-Heuristic* || *Mean Flow Time* || *Performance Index*||
|| 1. || ECJ2014-TREE_BASE_NORM_ND-Rule || GP_NORM_ND || 665.74 || 0.9009 ||
|| 2. || ECJ2014-TREE_EXT_NORM_ND-Rule || GP_NORM_ND || 669.18 || 0.9069 ||
|| 3. || GECCO2010-genSeed-2reps || GP || 669.83 || 0.9057 ||
|| 4. || GECCO2010-genSeed-10reps || GP || 671.30 || 0.9050 ||
|| 5. || IFT−UIT+NPT || - || 677.14 || 0.9091 ||
|| 6. || ECJ2014-LIN_BASE-Rule || CMA-ES || 702.27 || 0.9394 ||
|| 7. || 2PT+WINQ+NPT || - || 712.88 || 0.9491 ||
|| 8. || PT+WINQ || - || 723.47 || 0.9587 ||
|| 9. || ASP2013-Rule #6 || MOGP || 722.46 || 0.9611 ||
|| 10. || SPT || - || 761.51 || 1.0000 ||
|| 11. || Tie-Breaker || - || 1014.62 || 1.2807 ||

REMARK0: For definitions of the performance measures and a more detailed description of the results, see DetailedResults (Excel??).