#summary Description of the scheduling problems.

= General Definition =
In general, scheduling is concerned with the allocation of limited
resources to tasks over time, with the basic aim to ensure
an effective and efficient use of the available resources. In this case, the resources are machines that have to be allocated to jobs
(the tasks) in the best possible way (minimising or maximising
some objective function). Each job consists of a number of processing steps, or operations, that need to be performed on distinct machines. The basic constraints/assumptions are that
  * a job can be processed by only one machine at at time (no splitting or overlapping),
  * a machine can process only one job at a time (no batch processing),
  * a started operation must be completed before the respective machine can process another job (no preemption),
  * an operation can only be performed on the specified work centre (no alternate routeings),
  * the processing of jobs is independent of the progress of other jobs (no assembly operations or precedence constraints),
  * processing times are independent of the schedule and cover all activities related to the
  * execution of an operation (no sequence-dependent setup times),
 machines are the only limiting resource (no lack of operators, tools or material),
  * there are no space or time constraints on input and output buers (no blocking, scrap or rework),
  * all machines are continuously available (no breakdowns or maintenance activities),



 all jobs are available to be scheduled instantly (no dynamic job arrivals).
A problem that fulfils all of the above conditions is typically identified by an empty  field.
Otherwise, specific entries are used to indicate certain deviations from these assumptions as
illustrated in the following. If jobs arrive at the shop over time, i.e. each job j has its own specific release date r j, this is
denoted by an r j entry in the  field



 If
all jobs follow the same route that involves visiting each of the m distinct machines exactly
once, the shop is called a flow shop, which is denoted by Fm. Hence, every job consists of
exactly m operations in a flow shop. In the other extreme of an ideal job shop, each job has its
own specified route and may revisit some of the m machines several times while leaving out
others completely. This implies that the number of operations can vary between jobs in a job
shop. In practice, the number of dierent job routes is often limited by the product portfolio,
which leads to a flow pattern that lies in between the two extremes of the linear flow of a flow
shop and the random pattern of an ideal job shop. Such a shop is referred to as a flow-dominant
job shop herein, and like the ideal job shop, is denoted by Jm.

An important characteristic of multi-stage problem is the workload balance among work
centres. In a perfectly balanced shop all work centres are equally utilised, where utilisation
of a work centre is defined as the fraction of busy time averaged across its machines. On the
other hand, an unbalanced shop implies that some work centres have a higher workload than
others. Then, the utilisation of the shop is given by the utilisation of the bottleneck, i.e. the
mostly utilised work centre.

A more suitable objective for dynamic problems is the minimisation of the mean flow time,
where the flow time of job j is defined as Cj 􀀀 r j, i.e. the length of time the job spends in the
shop, from the time of its arrival to the time of its completion. The mean flow time is therefore
calculated as


= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages



Specifically, the job shop is continuously loaded with new jobs until the last of the first 2500 jobs has left the system, which marks the end of a simulation run. The first 500 jobs cover the warmup period and are therefore discarded. The mean flow time statistics then consist of the data collected for jobs numbered from 501 to 2500. Finally, 200 replications are run for both variants (Section 5.1) of the JSP.